RoadMap:

<!--  #Previous Version
Data Collection and Selection:  
Take educational videos from 3rd party like (YouTube , https://paperswithcode.com/dataset/eduvsum)
Explore transfer learning opportunities using pre-trained models if applicable.

Video Conversion to Audio:
Extract audio from video files using appropriate tools or libraries.
Use ML-based audio processing techniques if beneficial and needed.
VX2TEXT: End-to-End Learning of Video-Based Text Generation from Multimodal Inputs at later updates for adding visual features of the videos aswell

Audio to Transcript Generation:
Explore automatic speech recognition (ASR) models, possibly leveraging existing ML-based solutions.

Data Cleaning and Preprocessing:
Utilize natural language processing (NLP) for text cleaning and normalization.
SpaCy
-->


Text Summarization (Optional):
Apply extractive or abstractive summarization using ML models to condense text.
Tokenization

Question Generation:
Implement T5 (transformer-based architectures) question generation models varying the number of models to use according to the types of question patterns.
Or 
Using LLMs BERT preferably for this task and Naive Bayes Classifier

Quiz/Answer Key Generation:
Sense2vec wordvectors that are used for generation of multiple choices.
Research about giving similar options which are not correct as options.

Assessment Mechanism:
Incorporating natural language understanding (NLU) model.
Score Reinforcement Learning

Integration of Multimedia Elements (Optional):
Explore computer vision models for extracting information from video frames.

Database Integration:
Using data indexing and retrieval, improving efficiency.

Security:
Only you can see your lectures and generated notes.

Make an internal AI to help navigating through the portal.


Process:
Extract frames from video file ✔️

Classify extracted frames to find frames containing slides

Perspective crop images containing the presenter and slide to contain only the slide by matching temporal features

Cluster slides to group transitions and remove duplicates

Run a Slide Structure Analysis (SSA) using OCR on the slide frames to obtain a formatted transcript of the text on the slides

Detect and extract figures from the set of unique slide frames

Transcribe the lecture using a speech-to-text algorithm

Summarize the visual and auditory transcripts

Combine

Run some modifications (such as only using complete sentences)

Extractive summarization

Abstractive summarization

Convert intermediate outputs to a final notes file (HTML, TXT, markdown, etc.)


*This gives just the basic idea of the implementation and we will be changing/enhancing a lot of things here.*

https://github.com/thisisgagangupta/EduPrepAI



Added Scraper to scrape videos from open-access websites, youtube. etc...
